.mw-parser-output #ma-article-type{background-color:#000000;background-position:top left;background-repeat:no-repeat;background-size:contain;border:1px solid #666666;box-sizing:border-box;font-size:large;font-variant:small-caps;height:77px;margin-bottom:0.5em;padding:1em 1em 0 0;text-align:right}.mw-parser-output .type-altreality{background-image:linear-gradient(to right,transparent 140px,var(--ma-custom-accent-color--secondary)440px),url("https://static.wikia.nocookie.net/memoryalpha/en/images/8/81/Articletype_alt_reality.png?")}.mw-parser-output .type-mirror{background-image:linear-gradient(to right,transparent 400px,#000000 500px),url("https://static.wikia.nocookie.net/memoryalpha/en/images/d/dd/Articletype_mirror.png");color:#ffffff}.mw-parser-output .type-mirror.date-0401{background-image:linear-gradient(to right,transparent 400px,#000000 500px),url("https://static.wikia.nocookie.net/memoryalpha/en/images/6/65/Spock%27s_beard.png");color:#ffffff}.mw-parser-output .type-altmirror{background-image:linear-gradient(to right,transparent 400px,#000000 500px),url("https://static.wikia.nocookie.net/memoryalpha/en/images/b/b2/Articletype_mirror_alt.png");color:#ffffff}.mw-parser-output .type-realworld{background-image:linear-gradient(to right,transparent 140px,var(--ma-custom-accent-color--secondary)440px),url("https://static.wikia.nocookie.net/memoryalpha/en/images/1/13/Articletype_realworld.png?")}.mw-parser-output .type-multiple{background-image:linear-gradient(to right,transparent 400px,#000000 500px),url("https://static.wikia.nocookie.net/memoryalpha/en/images/c/c8/Articletype_multiple.png");color:#ffffff}.mw-parser-output .type-alttimeline{background-image:linear-gradient(to right,transparent 400px,#000000 500px),url("https://static.wikia.nocookie.net/memoryalpha/en/images/c/c6/Articletype_alt_timeline.png");color:#ffffff}.mw-parser-output .type-retcon{background-image:linear-gradient(to right,transparent 400px,#000000 500px),url("https://static.wikia.nocookie.net/memoryalpha/en/images/d/d0/Articletype_retcon.png");color:#ffffff}.mw-parser-output .type-abc{background-image:url("https://static.wikia.nocookie.net/memoryalpha/en/images/f/f3/Articletype_abc.png");color:#ffffff}.mw-parser-output .type-vision{background-image:linear-gradient(to right,transparent 400px,#000000 500px),url("https://static.wikia.nocookie.net/memoryalpha/en/images/5/50/Articletype_vision.png");color:#ffffff}.mw-parser-output .type-roddenberry{background-image:url("https://static.wikia.nocookie.net/memoryalpha/en/images/b/b2/Roddenberry_logo.jpg");color:#ffffff}.mw-parser-output .type-roddenvault{background-image:url("https://static.wikia.nocookie.net/memoryalpha/en/images/c/cd/Roddenberry_Vault_logo,_full_color,_horizontal.jpg");color:#ffffff} Real world article (written from a production point of view ) .mw-parser-output .portable-infobox{border-radius:0;font-size:0.875em;line-height:1.1;margin:0.5em auto;padding:0;width:270px}@media(max-width:640px){.mw-parser-output .portable-infobox{clear:none;float:none}.mw-parser-output .portable-infobox .nowrap{white-space:normal}}@media(min-width:640px){.mw-parser-output .portable-infobox{clear:right;float:right;margin-left:1em;margin-right:0}}.mw-parser-output .pi-background{background:var(--ma-custom-accent-color)}.mw-parser-output .pi-secondary-background{background:var(--ma-custom-base-color)linear-gradient(var(--ma-custom-table-header-color),var(--ma-custom-base-color));color:var(--ma-custom-heading-color)}.mw-parser-output .pi-border-color{border-top-color:var(--theme-border-color);border-right-color:var(--theme-border-color);border-bottom-color:var(--theme-border-color);border-left-color:var(--theme-border-color)}.mw-parser-output .pi-item-spacing{padding:3px}.mw-parser-output [data-item-name="halfwidth"] .pi-image-thumbnail{max-width:50%}.mw-parser-output .pi-horizontal-group{margin:0}html:root .mw-parser-output .pi-horizontal-group .pi-header{text-align:center}.mw-parser-output .pi-data-value,.mw-parser-output .pi-data-label{hyphens:none}.mw-parser-output .portable-infobox .pi-section-tab{background:none}.mw-parser-output .pi-panel-scroll-wrapper::before,.mw-parser-output .pi-panel-scroll-wrapper::after{content:none}.mw-parser-output .pi-image{padding:0}.mw-parser-output .pi-image .article-media-thumbnail{background:none;border:none;float:none;margin:0 auto}.mw-parser-output .pi-image .article-media-placeholder{border:none;margin:0;max-width:268px}.mw-parser-output .pi-caption{color:inherit;font-size:1em;font-style:normal}.mw-parser-output .pi-layout-stacked .pi-data-value{text-align:center}.mw-parser-output .pi-layout-stacked .pi-data-label{text-align:center;font-weight:normal;font-style:italic}.mw-parser-output .pi-layout-stacked .pi-data-value .plainlist ul{text-align:center}.mw-parser-output .pi-font,.mw-parser-output .pi-secondary-font,.mw-parser-output .portable-infobox .pi-data-label{font-size:1em;line-height:1.1}.mw-parser-output .portable-infobox .pi-title{font-size:1.4em;padding:0.7em}.mw-parser-output .pi-group{margin:0;padding:0}.mw-parser-output .portable-infobox .pi-header{font-size:1.1em;padding:0.7em}.mw-parser-output .pi-navigation{text-align:center;font-weight:normal} Leonard Nimoy Birth name: Leonard Simon Nimoy Date of birth: 26 March 1931 Place of birth: West End, Massachusetts, USA Date of death: 27 February 2015 Place of death: Bel-Air, California, USA Awards for Trek : Boston Society of Film Critics Award winner Broadcast Film Critics Association Award nominee Emmy Award nominee (3x) Hugo Award nominee (3x) Saturn Award 1 win, nominee (4x) Scream Award nominee TV Land Award winner Universe Reader's Choice Award winner Roles: Actor Director Writer Executive producer Video game voice actor Audiobook actor Calendar artist Character(s): Spock ; Additional appearances Leonard Simon Nimoy ( 26 March 1931 – 27 February 2015 ; age 83), an American actor, was best known for his Emmy Award-nominated portrayal of Spock , the half Human -half Vulcan first officer and science officer aboard the USS Enterprise . The only member of Star Trek: The Original Series main cast to have featured in the original pilot episode " The Cage ", Nimoy continued the role throughout the entire Original Series tenure, including Star Trek: The Animated Series , and the first six Star Trek films . He also appeared in the Star Trek: The Next Generation fifth season episodes " Unification I " and " Unification II " in celebration of the 25th anniversary of Star Trek being broadcast. He also left his mark on the Star Trek franchise as a director, writer, and producer, directing the films Star Trek III: The Search for Spock and Star Trek IV: The Voyage Home . Nimoy returned to the role of Spock in the 2009 movie Star Trek ; it was the first time he played the character on-screen since 1991 and was his first live-action film role since Star Trek VI: The Undiscovered Country . He made a further cameo appearance as Spock in the 2013 sequel Star Trek Into Darkness , making him the only principal cast member of any Star Trek series to appear in eight of the films and (technically) the longest-serving of all Star Trek cast members, having played the role on and off over a period of forty-nine years, from 1964 to 2013. In addition to this he voiced Spock in the video games Star Trek: Strategic Operations Simulator , Star Trek: 25th Anniversary , Star Trek: Judgment Rites and Star Trek Online . Footage of Nimoy's previous performances as Spock also appeared in the Star Trek: Deep Space Nine episode " Trials and Tribble-ations ", as well as the Star Trek: Discovery episodes " If Memory Serves ", and " Unification III ". His image also appeared in Star Trek Generations in a photograph in Kirk's cabin in the Nexus and again more prominently in Star Trek Beyond in two photographs that were among Spock's possessions bequeathed to his alternate reality counterpart . Contents 1 Biography 2 Early career 3 The Star Trek years 4 After Star Trek 5 Return to Star Trek 6 Other film and television works 7 Later projects 8 Star Trek appearances 8.1 Additional appearances 9 Directing credits 10 Writing credits 11 Games 12 Star Trek interviews 13 Bibliography 14 Music discography 15 Further reading 16 External links Biography [ ] Leonard Simon Nimoy was born in the West End neighborhood of Boston, Massachusetts, just four days after his Star Trek co-star William Shatner . Like Shatner, he was of Ukrainian-Jewish ancestry (his family name means "person who cannot speak" in Russian). He entered Boston College on a dramatic scholarship, but dropped out and headed for the West Coast, knowing that, there, he would find more lucrative opportunities in the acting business. In 1954, he married Sandi Zober, with whom he had two children – Adam and Julie. In the early 1950s, Nimoy served as a member of the United States Army Reserve . He served for eighteen months in Special Services at Ft. McPherson in Georgia and received a discharge in 1955 as a sergeant . Unfortunately, Nimoy's Army personnel file was destroyed in 1973 , during a major fire at the National Personnel Records Center in St. Louis, Missouri. In the mid-1950s, Nimoy began appearing in various television guest shots. In 1963, Nimoy landed a guest role on The Lieutenant, a series created by Gene Roddenberry . Roddenberry was also developing a science fiction series at the time and thought Nimoy would be perfect for it. Although he was initially up for the role of the ship's chief medical officer, Nimoy accepted the role as a half-Vulcan/half-Human named Spock on Roddenberry's series, entitled Star Trek, which made his career and changed his life. Nimoy played the role on and off over a period of forty-nine years, from 1964 to 2013. After the cancellation of Star Trek , Nimoy moved on to another Desilu/Paramount series, Mission: Impossible , playing the regular character of Paris for two seasons. He returned to the role of Spock in the first six Star Trek movies. In a hospital scene in Star Trek IV: The Voyage Home , a voice can be heard paging " Dr. Sandi Zober ." His second wife, Susan Bay , starred in two episodes of Star Trek: Deep Space Nine , as Admiral Rollman in " Past Prologue " and " Whispers ". In December 2002, Nimoy announced his retirement from acting and his plans to spend his retirement as a photographer. He came out of retirement to play the Prime Spock in J.J. Abrams ' Star Trek . Regardless, Nimoy thereafter enjoyed a new career in his senior years as a professional photographer, showing his prints all over the United States and throughout the world. Nimoy, after being seen at New York City's John F. Kennedy Airport being pushed in a wheelchair with an oxygen cylinder, disclosed in a tweet on 31 January 2014 that he had chronic obstructive pulmonary disease . He stated that it was due to his many years of being an "Olympic champion smoker" and, though he quit around the time he filmed Star Trek IV: The Voyage Home , the damage was done. Nimoy appeared on CNN's Piers Morgan Live on 10 February 2014 to discuss his condition. [1] [2] Nimoy passed away on 27 February 2015 , as a result of his illness at the age of eighty-three. Several of his Star Trek co-stars payed tribute to Nimoy after his death. [3] On 2 June 2015, NASA honored Nimoy when they named an asteroid after him, 4864 Nimoy. [4] His son, Adam, made the 2016 documentary For the Love of Spock in Nimoy's memory. His legacy continued through the 2017 documentary film created by his daughter, Julie, son, Adam, and narrated by John de Lancie , titled Remembering Leonard Nimoy , designed to raise awareness of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease . [5] Early career [ ] Nimoy began his Hollywood career with small roles in the 1951 films Queen for a Day and Paramount Pictures ' Rhubarb . Nimoy then played the title role in the boxing drama Kid Monk Baroni and played the Martian invader Narab in Zombies of the Stratosphere (later edited and released as a feature, Satan's Satellites ), both released in 1952. In 1954, he made an uncredited appearance in Them! , as did Richard Bellis , Lawrence Dobkin , and William Schallert . Four years later, he had a supporting role in The Brain Eaters . In the mid-1950s, Nimoy began appearing in various television guest shots, with his first being a 1954 episode of Dragnet. (He would make a second appearance on this series four years later, with his " Amok Time " co-star Celia Lovsky .) Between 1958 and 1960 alone, Nimoy was seen on such classic television shows as Sea Hunt, Wagon Train (working with future Trek co-stars Roy Jenson , Susan Oliver , and Phillip Pine , as well as Nehemiah Persoff ), The Tall Man (two episodes, including one with Marianna Hill and Charles Seel , with a story credit by D.C. Fontana ), Outlaws (in an episode with Alfred Ryder ), The Rebel (with Arlene Martel ), and Bonanza (in an episode written by Gene L. Coon ). Nimoy's subsequent TV credits include a 1961 episode of Rawhide and a 1963 episode of Perry Mason with Arthur Batanides , a 1961 episode of The Twilight Zone with Dean Stockwell (and concocted by Sam Rolfe ), a 1962 episode of Laramie with Michael Forest , and a 1962 episode of Sam Benedict with Paul Carr and Joanne Linville , as well as numerous episodes of the classic western series Gunsmoke, including one in 1963 with Bill Zuckert and another in 1966 with Richard Webb . He was also seen in a 1962 episode of The Untouchables , which, like Star Trek, was produced by Desilu before it became part of Paramount. In 1964, he appeared in two episodes of The Outer Limits – "The Production and Decay of Strange Particles" with Joseph Ruskin , Barry Russo , Rudy Solari , Robert Fortier and Willard Sage ; and "I, Robot" with Peter Brocco , Marianna Hill, and John Hoyt . He also co-starred with Sally Kellerman in a 1966 episode of A Man Called Shenandoah. His feature film credits during the 1960s consisted of a supporting role in The Balcony (1963, with Peter Brocco), an uncredited appearance in Seven Days in May (1964), and a role alongside Michael Forest and Robert Ellenstein in Deathwatch (1966, featuring music by Gerald Fried ). Nimoy also produced the latter film. Nimoy first worked with his future Trek co-star DeForest Kelley (Doctor Leonard McCoy ) in a 1959 episode of 26 Men entitled "Trail of Revenge." Prior to Star Trek, he again worked with Kelley in a 1963 episode of The Virginian. Nimoy also appeared in two 1965 episodes of The Virginian, working with Michael Ansara , Hal Baylor , Richard Beymer , Rex Holman , Sherry Jackson , and Ken Lynch . In 1964, Nimoy and his soon-to-be Star Trek co-star William Shatner worked together for the first time. This occasion occurs in the Joseph Sargent -directed episode of The Man from U.N.C.L.E. entitled "The Project Strigas Affair." In this episode, Nimoy and Shatner are on opposite sides, with Nimoy playing the right-hand-man of a diplomat attempting to initiate a war between the United States and the Soviet Union and Shatner playing the reluctant U.N.C.L.E. recruit who must help foil the diplomat's plot. In one climatic scene Nimoy pulls a gun on Shatner. Nimoy and Shatner began working together on Star Trek just two years later. The Star Trek years [ ] Late in 1963, Nimoy landed a guest role on The Lieutenant, a series starring Gary Lockwood and created by Gene Roddenberry . The episode he appeared in, entitled "In the Highest Tradition," co-starred Roddenberry's future wife, Majel Barrett . Roddenberry was also developing a science fiction series at the time and thought Nimoy would be perfect for it. Although he was initially up for the role of the ship's chief medical officer, Nimoy accepted the role as a half-Vulcan/half-Human named Spock on Roddenberry's series, entitled Star Trek, which made his career and changed his life. Nimoy along with Majel Barrett had his first day for "The Cage" at the Desilu Culver Stage 15 on 17 November 1964 , performing color makeup tests inside the Menagerie set. Nimoy as Spock in the second pilot, " Where No Man Has Gone Before " The first Star Trek pilot, " The Cage ", was filmed in November and December 1964 . Although the pilot was rejected by NBC , the studio allowed Roddenberry to produce a second pilot, which became " Where No Man Has Gone Before ". Many cast changes were made between the first pilot and the second, and Nimoy was the only principal cast member from "The Cage" to return for the second pilot. Following this pilot, Star Trek was picked up as a series. During his time on Star Trek, Nimoy was responsible for many traits which have become associated with Spock or Vulcans in general, including the Vulcan salute and the Vulcan nerve pinch . For his supporting role as Spock, Nimoy was nominated for an Emmy Award for each of the show's three years. Despite this, it was while working on Star Trek that Nimoy became an alcoholic. He never drank during the day or during work, but the moment work was done, he would desperately want a drink; because of that, he also became suicidal and depressed. [6] Fortunately, Nimoy was able to attain remissions of these illnesses and continue his acting career. Low ratings led to Star Trek 's cancellation in 1969 . Including the two pilots, Nimoy appeared in all 79 episodes of the series, the only actor to do so. After Star Trek [ ] After the cancellation of Star Trek , Nimoy moved on to another Desilu/Paramount series, Mission: Impossible , playing the regular character of Paris for two seasons (1969 – 1971). He joined the series as a replacement for the departing Martin Landau , who, ironically, was up for the role of Spock before Nimoy got the part. Lee Meriwether had a recurring role during Nimoy's first season on Mission: Impossible. Brooke Bundy and Alfred Ryder had roles in "The Controllers", the first episode shot with Nimoy. Many other past and future Star Trek actors appeared with Nimoy during his two seasons on Mission: Impossible, including Arlene Martel and David Opatoshu in the episode "Terror." After Mission: Impossible, Nimoy starred with Lloyd Haynes , Malachi Throne , William Windom , and John Winston in the ABC Movie of the Week Assault on the Wayne (for Paramount Television ) and co-starred with Yul Brynner , Richard Crenna , and Original Series guest actor Jeff Corey in the western film Catlow, both released in 1971. He then starred in three 1973 TV movies: an unsold pilot titled Baffled! (as a race car driver who has visions of people dying), Columbo: A Stitch in Crime (as a murderous doctor), and The Alpha Caper (co-starring James B. Sikking , Paul Sorensen , Victor Tayback , and Kenneth Tobey , and executive produced by Harve Bennett ). In 1973, Nimoy was hired by Gene Roddenberry to star in the title role of his science fiction pilot (and possibly series) The Questor Tapes , however he got replaced by Robert Foxworth . Nimoy didn't receive a word from Roddenberry about him being dumped, and only found it out when he accidentally met Foxworth on the studio lot. [7] Nimoy made his directorial debut with a 1973 episode of Night Gallery entitled "Death on a Barge," which featured Original Series guest actor Lou Antonio and future TNG guest actress Brooke Bundy . Nimoy cast Lesley Ann Warren, one of his Mission: Impossible castmates, in the lead role in this episode. He also appeared as an actor on Night Gallery, in a segment entitled "She'll Be Company For You," alongside Kathryn Hays , and directed by Original Series cinematographer Gerald Perry Finnerman . Finnerman also photographed the aforementioned episode directed by Nimoy. Also in 1973, Nimoy made his Broadway debut in a revival of the play Full Circle, working with future Star Trek: Enterprise guest star Peter Weller . In 1976, Nimoy began hosting In Search of... , a syndicated documentary program dealing with topics such as Bigfoot and other monsters, Atlantis , Stonehenge , Jack the Ripper , and other unsolved mysteries. Although the series ended in 1982, the A&E Network and later The History Channel aired In Search of... throughout the 1990s and the early 2000s. Return to Star Trek [ ] In 1973 Nimoy reprised the role of Spock for the first time since 1969, voicing the character in Star Trek: The Animated Series for Filmation . He only agreed to reprise the role after his demand that George Takei and Nichelle Nichols be hired back on the series were met. [8] Although this series ended in 1974 after only 22 episodes, a new live-action series, Star Trek: Phase II , began production shortly thereafter. Nimoy, however, opted out of this series after learning that his role would be essentially a part-time one, and his character was replaced by a young Vulcan named Xon , who would have been played by David Gautreaux . While Paramount was busy bringing Phase II to fruition, Nimoy moved on, continuing to host In Search of... , appearing in the Broadway production of Equus, and starring in the 1978 remake of Invasion Of The Body Snatchers, earning a Saturn Award nomination from the Academy of Science Fiction, Fantasy & Horror Films for his work on the latter. By this time, production on Phase II had ceased and the pilot for that series was being turned into the first Star Trek film, Star Trek: The Motion Picture . Nimoy was ultimately persuaded to reprise Spock for The Motion Picture , after Robert Wise , on the urgings of his wife Millicent , had made it a prerogative for him to accept the director's position on that movie. ( Star Trek Movie Memories , 1995, pp. 87-88) As a consequence, Nimoy in turn replaced Gautreaux as the principal Vulcan character for the movie. The Movie debuted in the United States on 7 December 1979 and marked the beginning of a new era for Star Trek and for Nimoy. Nimoy with Denise Crosby on the set of "Unification II" Nimoy received a Saturn Award nomination for his portrayal of Spock in The Motion Picture . He went on to play Spock in Star Trek II: The Wrath of Khan , although he was at first reluctant to do so. Spock seemingly perished at the end of Wrath of Khan, but Nimoy returned to the role for four more films: Star Trek III: The Search for Spock , Star Trek IV: The Voyage Home , Star Trek V: The Final Frontier , and Star Trek VI: The Undiscovered Country . He also directed and co-wrote the stories for The Search for Spock and The Voyage Home and executive produced and co-wrote the story for The Undiscovered Country. He earned Saturn Award nominations for directing The Search for Spock and for his performance in and direction of The Voyage Home. In late- 1986 , Nimoy was asked by Paramount Pictures chairman of the board Frank Mancuso, Sr. to produce Star Trek: The Next Generation , planned to be launched by the studio the following year, however Nimoy refused the offer. [9] In 1991 Nimoy reprised his role as Spock for the TNG episodes " Unification I " and " Unification II ". Due to his schedule, the second part was filmed prior to the first part as most of his appearance were in the second part. A few additional scenes of the first part were filmed during principal photography of the second part. Nimoy filmed his scenes for both episodes between Monday 9 September 1991 and Friday 13 September 1991 on Paramount Stage 8 , 9 , and 16 . The call sheet for Tuesday 10 September 1991 advised the transportation department to pick up Nimoy at his hotel at 5:10 am because of his makeup call at 5:40 am. In 1994 , Nimoy was asked to appear as Spock in Star Trek Generations , the seventh Star Trek feature and the first to feature the crew of Star Trek: The Next Generation. The film's script originally had a role for Nimoy, but it was not to Nimoy's satisfaction and he declined the offer. Explaining his reason for turning down the film, Nimoy remarked: " There was no Spock role in that script... there were five or six lines attributed to Spock [...] but it had nothing to do with Spock... I said to [co-writer] Rick Berman , 'You could distribute these lines to any one of the other characters and it wouldn't make any difference.' And that is exactly what he did. There was no Spock function in the script. I have always tried to make a contribution to these movies. There was no contribution to be made in that movie. " Several costumes and costume pieces worn by Nimoy were sold off on the It's A Wrap! sale and auction on eBay, including his headband from Star Trek IV: The Voyage Home . .mw-parser-output .original-link .external{color:#dd5010;cursor:help;font-size:smaller}.mw-parser-output .archivefile{display:none} [10] (X) Other film and television works [ ] Between his work on the Star Trek films, Nimoy worked on numerous television projects. In 1981, he directed and starred in his own television adaptation of the one-man play Vincent, portraying Vincent van Gogh's brother, Theo. In 1982, he received his fourth Emmy nomination for his supporting role in the telefilm A Woman Called Golda and appeared in the mini-series Marco Polo, starring Kenneth Marshall in the title role and co-starring F. Murray Abraham and David Warner . Also around this time, Nimoy directed an episode of William Shatner's new series, T. J. Hooker , reportedly in preparation for directing Star Trek III: The Search for Spock. ( Star Trek III: The Search for Spock (Special Edition) special features) He later guest-starred on the series, which also starred Star Trek: Deep Space Nine performer James Darren . From 1982 to 1987, Nimoy hosted Standby...Lights! Camera! Action! , a Nickelodeon series featuring behind-the-scenes footage from then-current or upcoming films and interviews with film professionals who fit the theme of that episode. One episode focused on the making of Star Trek III: The Search for Spock and saw Nimoy interviewing George Takei. Nimoy later appeared in the James Goldstone -directed TV movie The Sun Also Rises, based on the Ernest Hemingway novel. He then worked with director Tim Burton to play the villain in the Faerie Tale Theatre production of Aladdin and His Wonderful Lamp. Nimoy also lent his voice to the role of Galvatron in The Transformers: The Movie, the 1986 film based on the animated series. Among the others who voiced characters in the movie are Michael Bell , Roger C. Carmel , Walker Edmiston , Clive Revill , Frank Welker , and Orson Welles . In 1987, Nimoy directed Three Men and a Baby (with Paul Guilfoyle , Eugene Clark and Dave Foley ), his first non- Star Trek feature film. Subsequent films he directed were The Good Mother (1988, with Joe Morton and Eugene Clark ), Funny About Love (1990, featuring Michael Bofshever , Freda Foh Shen , Wendie Malick and Celeste Yarnall ), and Holy Matrimony (1994, starring Jeffrey Nordling and John Schuck ); frequent Trek editor Peter E. Berger edited all three of these films. Nimoy's latest directorial effort was a 1995 episode of the short-lived UPN series Deadly Games, starring Christopher Lloyd . Nimoy starred in Never Forget (1991, directed by Joseph Sargent ), and voiced the mysterious Mr. Moundshroud in The Halloween Tree (1993). In addition, he voiced Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde in The Pagemaster (1994, featured the voices of Patrick Stewart , Whoopi Goldberg , Frank Welker, George Hearn , Robert Picardo , and Christopher Lloyd. In 1995, Nimoy appeared on The Outer Limits under the direction of his son, Adam; a remake of the 1964 episode "I, Robot" (although Nimoy played a different character than he had in the original). In 1993, Nimoy guest starred on The Simpsons episode " Marge vs. the Monorail ", and in 1997 guest starred again in " The Springfield Files ". As a director, Nimoy was very much invested with the actors he directed, having been one himself, as was clearly evidenced by David Gautreaux, Nimoy had replaced as the principal Vulcan character on The Motion Picture , "Leonard and I had a meeting once when he called and asked me to down to Paramount . I thought it was because of Star Trek III . He had many roles to cast, and he wanted to meet with me. We had a nice long conversation, which is on videotape, because he recorded all of his conversations; it helps him remember actors. We chit-chatted for a good period of time, and then he came in with what I call the slider, which was, "How did you feel...how did it affect you...essentially, what did it do to your life when I came back and played Mr. Spock, thus removing your character?" I looked at him, wondering if he was trying to purge himself of something he had felt all this time. I asked him what he meant by that, and he said, "Well, you were a young man and this was a very big moment in your life. Did I remove that moment?" I looked at him, with a thousand thoughts running through my mind. My response was, "Look, I was young, but I wasn't brand new. I had been in this business, primarily in theater, for a good long time. For me Xon and Star Trek were like a play that opened and closed on opening night, which happens all the time in theater. I had, and continue to have, another life outside whatever Xon was or was not to be. He said, "That's very good. I was hoping you would say something like that." I had no idea that he put that much investment and thought into the belief that he had upset my life." ( Starlog , issue 139, p. 14) Later projects [ ] In 1996, Nimoy co-founded Alien Voices with John de Lancie and writer-producer Nat Segaloff. The audio production company/troupe produced several science fiction audio productions (including the two " Spock Vs. Q " audios) and a few televised specials for the Sci-Fi Channel : The First Men in the Moon in 1997 and The Lost World in 1998. Nimoy appeared in both of these films along with de Lancie, Ethan Phillips , and Dwight Schultz . William Shatner also starred in the first project; Roxann Dawson and Armin Shimerman had roles in the second. In 1997, Nimoy played the Biblical prophet Samuel. His partner in the TNT movie was TNG guest star Maurice Roëves . Nimoy shows his opinion of Spock at the 2007 Las Vegas Star Trek Convention In 1998, Nimoy appeared in Brave New World (1998, with Miguel Ferrer , Daniel Dae Kim , and Aron Eisenberg ). He then voiced a trio of characters in Sinbad: Beyond the Veil of Mists (2000, with John Rhys-Davies , Jennifer Hale , Jim Cummings , Kevin Michael Richardson and Frank Welker). After voicing the role of the King of Atlantis in Atlantis: The Lost Empire (2001, with Phil Morris , Corey Burton and David Ogden Stiers ), Nimoy announced his retirement from acting, deciding instead to focus on photography. Despite his retirement, Nimoy made appearances with William Shatner in several commercials for Priceline.com in 2005 and 2006. Also in 2006, Nimoy did commercials for the arthritis pain medication, Aleve, in which Nimoy was concerned that his arthritis would prevent him from delivering the Vulcan salute to his fans at a convention. Nimoy with Zachary Quinto at the Comic-Con International (2007) In 2007, it was announced that Nimoy would come out of retirement to play Spock in the 2009 Star Trek feature being produced and directed by J.J. Abrams . When proclaiming his reasons for accepting the role, he stated it was because the film has "a great director" (Abrams), "a wonderful actor playing the young Spock" ( Zachary Quinto ), and "a fabulous script" (written by Roberto Orci and Alex Kurtzman ). He summed up his decision by stating "it was logical." [11] In a July 2007 interview with Anthony Pascale of TrekMovie.com , Nimoy gave three reasons for coming out of retirement to play Spock for the new film. His first reason was that it was Star Trek and that he owed it to the franchise to give his attention to the project. The second reason was his admiration for producer/director J.J. Abrams, and the third was that Spock had an "essential" and "interesting" role in the script. [12] Production on Star Trek began on 7 November 2007 . Nimoy began filming his scenes the following month. Shooting wrapped in March 2008. Nimoy can be heard reciting the famous line "Space... the final frontier" in the teaser trailer for the new Star Trek film, which debuted 18 January 2008 . According to the film's co-writer, Roberto Orci, the line is a new recording which Nimoy made on the film's set in-between takes. [13] Following his work on Star Trek completed, Nimoy began appearing on Fringe, the science fiction television series created and produced by three members of Star Trek 's creative team: J.J. Abrams, Alex Kurtzman, and Roberto Orci. On the show, Nimoy plays the recurring role of the enigmatic founder of Massive Dynamics, William Bell, a character which had previously been referenced but never seen. Nimoy voiced the role for the episode "Bad Dreams," which was written and directed by Akiva Goldsman and made his first on-camera appearance in the first season finale aired 12 May 2009. Nimoy returned for an extended arc that fall. Fringe was Nimoy's first foray into episodic television since appearing on Becker in 2001. For his role on Fringe, Nimoy received a Saturn Award nomination for Best Guest Starring Role on Television in 2010. Fellow Trek actors Michelle Forbes and Raymond Cruz are also nominated in this category. [14] Nimoy also received a Boston Society of Film Critics Award in 2009 and a Critic's Choice Award nomination at the Broadcast Film Critics Association Award in 2010 as part of the Star Trek ensemble. His face was used for card #103 "Ambassador Spock" of the 2013 virtual collectible card battle game Star Trek: Rivals . On 19 April 2010, Nimoy announced his decision to again retire from acting. In explaining his decision to The Toronto Star, Nimoy stated, " I've been doing this professionally for 60 years. I love the idea of going out on a positive note. I've had a great, great time. " He also said he would not appear in the next Star Trek film, claiming it would be unfair to Zachary Quinto , the actor currently portraying Spock . Nimoy recently filmed what he said would be his final appearance on the FOX series Fringe (created by Abrams with Star Trek scribes Alex Kurtzman and Roberto Orci ). [15] He also confirmed that in 2010, he would portray the voice of the main antagonist, Master Xehanort, in Kingdom Hearts Birth By Sleep . He reprised the role in Kingdom Hearts 3D: Dream Drop Distance . On 22 October 2010 it was announced that due to a personal family emergency Nimoy would not be attending that day's Star Trek convention in Chicago. Later it was revealed that he was in the hospital. On 26 May 2011 the new music video from Bruno Mars titled The Lazy Song was released. The video features Nimoy in a leading role and the second time he broke his "retirement". In the music video Nimoy is making several Trek jokes including the William Shatner on television scene and his "Vulcan salute" posing in front of the mirror. Nimoy explained his recent acting work in an email to TrekMovie: The Atlantic Records Executive who signed Bruno Mars on to this label is the son of his wife Susan Bay, Aaron Bay-Schuck. [16] Nimoy returned to the Transformers franchise in 2011 when he lent his voice to the duplicitous Sentinel Prime in Transformers: Dark of the Moon working with Jack Axelrod , George Coe , Michael Dorn , Robert Foxworth , Glenn Morshower , Keith Szarabajka , Tom Virtue and Frank Welker. Foxworth, Morshower, and Welker all acted in the first three films. On 20 July 2011, Nimoy made it official that he would retire from convention appearances after two more official Star Trek conventions, held by Creation Entertainment. These included the Las Vegas convention on August 11-14, 2011 and in Chicago on September 30-October 2, as well as the Dragon Con in Atlanta, Georgia. Nimoy agreed to return to Chicago after having to cancel the previous year. [17] In 2012, Nimoy once again reprised the role of Spock in The Big Bang Theory episode "The Transporter Malfunction", this time voicing a vintage Spock action figure who acts as Sheldon Cooper 's conscience in his dreams. The following year, he and Quinto played themselves in a commercial for the Audi S7 car that was rife with Star Trek references – including a brief reprisal of the ending of The Wrath of Khan , and Nimoy applying the nerve pinch to Quinto – as well as a repeat performance of "The Ballad of Bilbo Baggins". [18] Nimoy's credit on Star Trek Into Darkness , his final film appearance In 2013, Nimoy reprised the role of Spock in Star Trek Into Darkness in a small cameo role, warning the alternate reality Spock of Khan Noonien Singh 's threat and how the original crew beat him . This was his final Star Trek appearance before his death in 2015. Before his death and along with William Shatner , Nimoy was rumored to appear in Star Trek Beyond , in a scene with Chris Pine and Zachary Quinto , as the future alternate reality versions of the characters. [19] Nimoy's death (via that of the prime universe Spock) was instead acknowledged in the film, which bears a dedication to Nimoy. In 2019 , Nimoy's widow, Susan Bay, revealed that he had asked nurses to aid in his death. [20] Star Trek appearances [ ] Appearances as Spock Star Trek: The Original Series (80 episodes) Star Trek: The Animated Series (voice only, every episode) Star Trek films Star Trek: The Motion Picture Star Trek II: The Wrath of Khan Star Trek III: The Search for Spock Star Trek IV: The Voyage Home Star Trek V: The Final Frontier Star Trek VI: The Undiscovered Country Star Trek Generations (Picture only) Star Trek Star Trek Into Darkness Star Trek Beyond (Picture only) TNG : " Unification I " " Unification II " DS9 : " Trials and Tribble-ations " (archive footage) DIS : " If Memory Serves " (archive footage) " Unification III " (archive footage) PRO : " Kobayashi " (archive voice footage) Additional appearances [ ] Spock (mirror) TOS : " Mirror, Mirror " Henoch (in Spock's body) TOS : " Return to Tomorrow " Ambassador Kollos ( mind melded with Spock) TOS : " Is There in Truth No Beauty? " Lord Garth (masquerading as Spock) TOS : " Whom Gods Destroy " Spock Two TAS : " The Infinite Vulcan " Elevator Voice (credited as Frank Force) Star Trek III: The Search for Spock Mercy Hospital visitor Star Trek IV: The Voyage Home (uncredited) Spock One hologram TNG : " Unification II " Spock (hologram) PRO : " Kobayashi " Directing credits [ ] Star Trek III: The Search for Spock Star Trek IV: The Voyage Home Writing credits [ ] Star Trek: The Motion Picture (uncredited) Star Trek III: The Search for Spock (uncredited) Star Trek IV: The Voyage Home (story with Harve Bennett ) Star Trek VI: The Undiscovered Country (story with Lawrence Konner & Mark Rosenthal ) Games [ ] Star Trek: Strategic Operations Simulator Star Trek: 25th Anniversary Star Trek: Judgment Rites Star Trek Online Star Trek interviews [ ] "Leonard Nimoy – Spock on the Next Generation", The Official Star Trek: The Next Generation Magazine issue 17 , pp. 14-15, interviewed by Marc Shapiro "Leonard Nimoy – Ambassador Spock", The Official Star Trek: The Next Generation Magazine issue 18 , pp. 48-49, interviewed by Marc Shapiro Bibliography [ ] I Am Not Spock – Author I Am Spock – Author Music discography [ ] Albums (vinyl LPs): Mr. Spock's Music from Outer Space (Dot Records, 1967) Two Sides of Leonard Nimoy (Dot Records, 1968) The Way I Feel (Dot Records, 1968) The Touch of Leonard Nimoy (Dot Records, 1969) The New World of Leonard Nimoy (Dot Records, 1970) Reissued LPs: Leonard Nimoy: Space Odyssey (Pickwick Records, US, 1972) Mr. Spock Presents Music From Outer Space (Rediffusion Records, UK, 1973) Outer Space / Inner Mind (Famous Twinsets/Paramount Records, US, 1974) Leonard Nimoy (Sears Records, US, 1988) Spoken word LPs: The Martian Chronicles (Caedmon Records, 1976) Illustrated Man (Caedmon Records, 1977) War of the Worlds (Caedmon Records, 1977) Green Hills of Earth (Caedmon Records, 1977) The Mysterious Golem (JRT Records, 1982) Singles (45s): The Ballad of Bilbo Baggins / Cotton Candy (Dot Records, 1967) Theme From Star Trek / Visit To A Sad Planet (Dot Records, 1967) I'd Love Making Love To You / Please Don't Try to Change My Mind (Dot Records, 1968) Consilium / Here We Go 'Round Again (Dot Records, 1968) The Sun Will Rise / Time to Get It Together (Dot Records, 1969) Outer Space / Inner Mind (Paramount Records, 1970) Cassettes: Leonard Nimoy / Micro-Cassette (Dot Records, release date unknown) You Are Not Alone (MCA Records, 1987) CDs: Highly Illogical (Rev-Ola Records, UK, 1993) Leonard Nimoy Presents: Mr. Spock's Music From Outer Space (Varése Sarabande, US, 1995) Spaced Out: The Very Best of Leonard Nimoy & William Shatner (Universal Music/Phantom, UK, 1997) Golden Throats: The Great Celebrity Sing Off (Rhino Records, US, 1988, LP; 1992, CD) Golden Throats 2: More Celebrity Rock Oddities (Rhino Records, US, 1991) Golden Throats 3: Sweet Hearts of Rodeo Drive (Rhino Records, US, 1995) Spaced Out: The Very Best of Leonard Nimoy & William Shatner (Universal Music/Space, Canada, 1997) Dr. Demento's 30th Anniversary Collection (Rhino Records, US, 2000) Dr. Demento's Hits From Outer Space (Rhino Records, US, 2002) Further reading [ ] Leonard Nimoy: A Star's Trek The Man Between the Ears: Star Trek's Leonard Nimoy Spock Vs. Q Spock Vs. Q: The Sequel .mw-parser-output .navbox{box-sizing:border-box;width:100%;border:1px solid #666666;margin:1em auto 0 auto;clear:both;border-spacing:0}.mw-parser-output .navbox+.navbox-styles+.navbox{margin-top:0;border-top:none}.mw-parser-output .navbox.mw-collapsed{border-bottom:none}body.skin-fandommobile:not(.ns-0) .mw-parser-output .navbox{display:table}@media print{.mw-parser-output .navbox{display:none}}.mw-parser-output .navbox-header{text-align:center;font-weight:bold;border-bottom:1px solid #666666;background:var(--theme-page-dynamic-color-1--inverted)linear-gradient(var(--ma-custom-table-header-color),var(--theme-page-dynamic-color-1--inverted))}.mw-parser-output .navbox-header::before,.mw-parser-output .mw-collapsible-toggle,.mw-parser-output .navbar{font-weight:normal;font-size:0.8em;padding:0.1em 0.4em}.mw-parser-output .navbox-header div:last-child{margin:0 5em}.mw-parser-output .navbar{float:left;text-align:left;text-transform:uppercase}.mw-parser-output .navbar ul{white-space:nowrap}.mw-parser-output .navbar li{word-spacing:-0.125em}.mw-parser-output .navbar abbr{border-bottom:none;text-decoration:none;cursor:inherit}.mw-parser-output .navbox-group{background:var(--ma-custom-accent-color)}.mw-parser-output .navbox-group th,.mw-parser-output .navbox-group td{font-size:smaller}.mw-parser-output .navbox-group th{text-align:right;white-space:nowrap;width:1%;padding:1px 12px;box-sizing:border-box}.mw-parser-output .navbox-group th::after{content:":"}.mw-parser-output .navbox-group td:first-child{text-align:center}.mw-parser-output .navbox-group td{padding:1px} .mw-parser-output .hlist dl,.mw-parser-output .hlist ol,.mw-parser-output .hlist ul{margin:0;padding:0}.mw-parser-output .hlist dd,.mw-parser-output .hlist dt,.mw-parser-output .hlist li{margin:0;display:inline}.mw-parser-output .hlist.inline,.mw-parser-output .hlist.inline dl,.mw-parser-output .hlist.inline ol,.mw-parser-output .hlist.inline ul,.mw-parser-output .hlist dl dl,.mw-parser-output .hlist dl ol,.mw-parser-output .hlist dl ul,.mw-parser-output .hlist ol dl,.mw-parser-output .hlist ol ol,.mw-parser-output .hlist ol ul,.mw-parser-output .hlist ul dl,.mw-parser-output .hlist ul ol,.mw-parser-output .hlist ul ul{display:inline}.mw-parser-output .hlist .mw-empty-li{display:none}.mw-parser-output .hlist dt:not(:last-child)::after{content:": "}.mw-parser-output .hlist dd:not(:last-child)::after,.mw-parser-output .hlist li:not(:last-child)::after{content:"\a0 • "}.mw-parser-output .hlist dd dd:first-child::before,.mw-parser-output .hlist dd dt:first-child::before,.mw-parser-output .hlist dd li:first-child::before,.mw-parser-output .hlist dt dd:first-child::before,.mw-parser-output .hlist dt dt:first-child::before,.mw-parser-output .hlist dt li:first-child::before,.mw-parser-output .hlist li dd:first-child::before,.mw-parser-output .hlist li dt:first-child::before,.mw-parser-output .hlist li li:first-child::before{content:" ("}.mw-parser-output .hlist dd dd:last-child::after,.mw-parser-output .hlist dd dt:last-child::after,.mw-parser-output .hlist dd li:last-child::after,.mw-parser-output .hlist dt dd:last-child::after,.mw-parser-output .hlist dt dt:last-child::after,.mw-parser-output .hlist dt li:last-child::after,.mw-parser-output .hlist li dd:last-child::after,.mw-parser-output .hlist li dt:last-child::after,.mw-parser-output .hlist li li:last-child::after{content:")"}.mw-parser-output .hlist ol{counter-reset:listitem}.mw-parser-output .hlist ol>li{counter-increment:listitem}.mw-parser-output .hlist ol>li::before{content:" "counter(listitem)"\a0 "}.mw-parser-output .hlist dd ol>li:first-child::before,.mw-parser-output .hlist dt ol>li:first-child::before,.mw-parser-output .hlist li ol>li:first-child::before{content:" ("counter(listitem)"\a0 "} v t e Star Trek: The Original Series regular cast Starring William Shatner Leonard Nimoy DeForest Kelley Co-starring Majel Barrett James Doohan Walter Koenig Nichelle Nichols George Takei Grace Lee Whitney v t e Star Trek: The Animated Series regular cast Starring William Shatner Leonard Nimoy DeForest Kelley Co-starring Majel Barrett James Doohan Nichelle Nichols George Takei External links [ ] Leonard Nimoy at Wikipedia Leonard Nimoy at the Internet Movie Database Leonard Nimoy at the Internet Broadway Database TheOfficialLeonardNimoyFanClub.com – official fan club Leonard Nimoy at TriviaTribute.com Interview at the Archive of American Television Leonard Nimoy at Memory Beta , the wiki for licensed Star Trek works Leonard Nimoy at the Star Trek Online Wiki Leonard Nimoy at FindAGrave Previous Director: Nicholas Meyer Star Trek films director Star Trek III: The Search for Spock ; Star Trek IV: The Voyage Home Next Director: William Shatner